THIS Q&A I DID
AT THE LAW SCHOOL?
IT WENT LONG.
WHAT'D THE FUTURE SCUMBAGS
OF AMERICA WANT TO KNOW ABOUT?
MOSTLY
SEARCH-AND-SEIZURE RULES.
DID YOU DEMONSTRATE
ON THE COEDS?
Come on.
They were all too young.
Too young for you,
but not for me.
My cutoff is 25, buddy.
So, how much you get paid
for a lecture gig like this?
OH, I GOT
SOME GREAT GIFTS --
A T-SHIRT,
A COFFEE MUG...
and the professor's
phone number.
YEAH?
WHAT'S HIS NAME?
Oh, very funny.
ANYWAY...
So, are you still gonna
pick me up tomorrow?
OH, MY GOD!
FLYNN?
ANDY! ANDY!
WHAT THE HELL?!
WHAT HAPPENED?!
THERE'S BEEN AN ACCIDENT!
Are you hurt?
NO, NO. I'M FINE.
LISTEN, GET AN AMBULANCE.
SOUTH SIDE OF BEVERLY,
JUST EAST OF MARTEL!
OKAY, OKAY, OKAY.
DON'T MOVE, SWEETHEART.
HELP IS ON THE WAY, OKAY?
MY DAD'S GONNA BE SO MAD.
HE DIDN'T WANT ME
TO RIDE THE BIKE.
TELL ME YOUR NAME.
GRACEY.
OKAY, GRACEY,
DID YOU SEE THE DRIVER
OF THE CAR THAT HIT YOU?
ALL I SAW
WERE HEADLIGHTS.
I...I-I THINK I'M OKAY.
I'M GOOD.
I DON'T FEEL ANYTHING.
JUST HELP ME UP.
NO, NO, NO.
YOU -- YOU JUST LIE THERE,
OKAY?
AN AMBULANCE IS ON THE WAY.
I'M SO SORRY TO CAUSE YOU
ALL THIS TROUBLE.
I REALLY THINK I'M OKAY.
LISTEN -- LISTEN, SWEETHEART,
IT'S NO TROUBLE AT ALL.
YOU WERE IN AN ACCIDENT.
HEY, YOU'RE A CHAMP,
GRACEY.
YOU'RE A CHAMP.
YEAH, YOU'RE DOING GOOD.
YOU'RE DOING GOOD,
SWEETHEART.
YOU'RE DOING GOOD.
GRACEY, DON'T...
OH, MY GOD.
OH, NO!
OH, MY GOD!
OH, MY GOD.
OH, NO!
OH. OH.
I-I'M SORRY. I-I THINK I MAY
HAVE LEFT MY PURSE HERE.
GAIL!
I THOUGHT YOU LEFT.
WELL, I THOUGHT
I HAD, TOO.
I CAN'T FIND MY CAR.
I THINK
IT'S BEEN STOLEN.
OH, NOT THE MERCEDES.
OH, NO,
THIS IS AWFUL.
MY CAR, PURSE...
THE PHONE,
THE CREDIT CARDS, EVERYTHING.
YOU SHOULD HAVE VALETED.
I COULD HAVE VALETED!
I'LL CALL THE POLICE.
SHALL I TELL THEM WHO YOU ARE?
NO, NO.
YES.
NO, DON'T DO THAT.
WELL, YES, MAYBE...
IF YOU THINK IT'LL MOVE THINGS
ALONG FASTER.
WOULD YOU LOOK AT ME?
MY HANDS ARE SHAKING.
OH, YOU POOR BABY.
LET'S GET YOU A DRINK.
WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE?
OH, YOU KNOW WHAT?
I THINK I'LL HAVE SOMETHING
WITH VODKA, PLEASE?
RIGHT AWAY.
Kelly: MOM?
HEY, MOM, IS THAT YOU?
HI, HONEY.
I'M SORRY I'M LATE.
I-I WOULD HAVE CALLED,
BUT SOMEBODY
STOLE MY PURSE.
SOMEBODY STOLE IT,
OR YOU LEFT IT SOMEWHERE?
NO, THIS TIME,
SOMEONE ACTUALLY TOOK IT.
AND THEY
TOOK MY CAR, TOO.
CAN YOU BELIEVE IT?
MOM,
DO YOU REALLY NEED THAT?
AFTER THE NIGHT I HAVE HAD,
YES, MOMMY NEEDS A NIGHTCAP.
WELL, AT LEAST
YOU DIDN'T DRIVE HOME.
NO. YOUR DAD'S BOYS IN BLUE
BROUGHT ME
RIGHT TO THE FRONT DOOR,
ONLY TOO HAPPY TO HELP
THE POLICE COMMISSIONER'S WIFE.
OH, GO BACK TO BED.
I'M JUST GONNA...
SIT FOR A WHILE.
OKAY.
OH, OH.
GOOD MORNING, MRS. MYERS.
GOOD MORNING.
UH, LIEUTENANT PROVENZA,
UH, LIEUTENANT FLYNN, L.A.P.D.
OH, MY GOD. DON'T TELL ME
YOU'VE ALREADY FOUND MY
MERCEDES.
NO, NO,
BUT WE'RE WORKING ON IT.
I KNOW IT'S AN IMPOSITION,
CHIEF POPE ASKED
IF YOU'D COME DOWNTOWN
TO LOOK AT SOME PHOTOS
OF PEOPLE WHO MIGHT HAVE BEEN
AT THE RESTAURANT.
WOW, YOU GUYS
ARE REALLY ON IT.
COME IN, COME IN.
WELL, THANK YOU.
YES, THANK YOU.
RIGHT THIS WAY,
MRS. MYERS.
THIS IS THE HEART OF
MAJOR CRIMES DIVISION,
OR WHAT WE CALL
"THE MURDER ROOM."
AND RIGHT OVER HERE,
WE'RE TRYING TO REASSEMBLE
WHAT HAPPENED LAST NIGHT.
OF COURSE, WE'RE, UH,
SURVEILLING ALL KNOWN CHOP SHOPS
AND HIGH-END RESALE DEALERS
IN THE AREA,
BUT YOU SHOULD BE PREPARED.
A LOT OF THESE CARS JUST GO
STRAIGHT OVER THE BORDER.
Taylor: HERE YOU ARE.
MRS. MYERS, ALLOW ME TO
INTRODUCE DETECTIVE SANCHEZ,
DETECTIVE GABRIEL,
AND THAT'S LIEUTENANT TAO
OVER THERE.
MRS. MYERS.
IT'S A PLEASURE, MA'AM.
MA'AM, THESE ARE KNOWN
CAR THIEVES AND PAROLEES
WHO LIVE WITHIN 2-MILES
OF WHERE YOU PARKED YOUR CAR.
IF ANYBODY LOOKS FAMILIAR,
JUST POINT.
Gabriel: YEAH,
WE RAN ALL THE DMV PHOTOS
AND GREEN-CARD I.D.s
OF ALL THE KITCHEN WORKERS,
BAR STAFF, AND WAITERS
AT LA "BON-NE" AMI.
LA BONNE AMI.
Tao: WE WRANGLED THE RESERVATION
LIST AND SEATING CHART
FROM LA BONNE AMI,
UH, EARLY THIS MORNING
FROM THE MAîTRE D'.
I'M CROSSCHECKING
THE FOOD AND DRINK TABS
WITH CREDIT-CARD CHARGES,
TRACKING DOWN WHO HAD BEEN
SEATED CLOSE TO YOUR TABLE.
Gabriel: SOMEBODY COULD'VE
WATCHED YOU PARK
AND THEN FOLLOWED YOU INSIDE.
MY GOD. I JUST HOPE
THAT YOU'RE NOT
DOING ALL OF THIS
JUST BECAUSE I'M
A POLICE COMMISSIONER'S WIFE.
WELL, NOT ALL OF IT.
WE'VE ONLY HAD
TWO CARS STOLEN
FROM THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
ALL YEAR.
WE DON'T WANT THIS
TO START A TREND.
PLEASE, IF YOU WOULDN'T MIND
HANGING HERE FOR A SECOND.
WE'RE GONNA SEND
CHIEF JOHNSON IN
TO MAKE SURE EVERYTHING'S RIGHT
WITH YOUR INSURANCE.
UH, DO YOU
HAVE ENOUGH COFFEE?
UH, YES. THANK YOU.
HELLO, HELLO.
I'M SO SORRY TO HAVE KEPT YOU
WAITING, MRS. MYERS.
I'M DEPUTY CHIEF
BRENDA LEIGH JOHNSON.
WE'VE MET ONCE BEFORE,
BUT YOU PROBABLY DON'T REMEMBER.
YOU AND, UH,
COMMISSIONER MYERS
HOSTED A COCKTAIL PARTY
AT YOUR HOUSE FOR CHIEF POPE.
SUCH A NICE HOUSE.
I'M SO SORRY
ABOUT YOUR CAR.
I'VE NEVER HAD MINE STOLEN --
OR MY PURSE, FOR THAT MATTER,
WHICH, FOR ME,
WOULD BE MUCH WORSE.
I KEEP EVERYTHING
IN THAT PURSE -- EVERYTHING.
WHICH REMINDS ME --
IS THERE A REASON YOU HAVEN'T
CANCELED YOUR CREDIT CARDS?
YOU KNOW,
I COMPLETELY FORGOT.
WELL, YOU SHOULD
GET ON IT RIGHT AWAY.
AS YOUR HUSBAND
WOULD TELL YOU,
TO HAVE YOUR CAR STOLEN
IS ONE THING,
BUT IDENTITY THEFT
IS MUCH WORSE.
SO, I KNOW
THAT YOU MUST BE...
SICK OF, UH, GOING OVER
WHAT HAPPENED LAST NIGHT,
BUT IT IS CRUCIAL THAT I GET
THE DETAILS DIRECTLY FROM YOU.
OKAY. I WENT OUT TO DINNER
WITH MY DAUGHTER
AND HER TWO BEST FRIENDS
FROM THE MARLBOROUGH ACADEMY
AND THEIR MOTHERS.
UM, AFTER DINNER, I NOTICED
MY PURSE WAS MISSING.
RIGHT. YOU, UH -- YOU TOLD
THE RESPONDING OFFICERS
THAT YOU THOUGHT YOU MIGHT HAVE
LEFT IT IN THE LADIES' ROOM?
HONESTLY,
I DON'T REMEMBER.
I ACTUALLY WALKED OUT
OF THE RESTAURANT,
THINKING I MIGHT HAVE STILL
LEFT THE PURSE IN THE CAR.
BUT THE CAR WAS GONE.
THEN WHAT?
UH...I WALKED BACK INSIDE,
AND THE MANAGER
CALLED THE POLICE.
WELL, WE MAY HAVE MORE
INFORMATION TO ADD TO THAT.
UM...YOU SEE, MRS. MYERS,
UM...
LAST NIGHT,
THERE WAS A TERRIBLE ACCIDENT
AROUND THE TIME
THAT YOUR CAR WENT MISSING.
A 19-YEAR-OLD GIRL WAS KILLED
IN A HIT-AND-RUN.
OH, MY GOD.
WE HAVE SEVERAL WITNESSES
DESCRIBING A MERCEDES
EXACTLY LIKE YOURS.
OH, MY GOD.
ARE YOU KIDDING ME?
I WISH I WAS.
HER NAME
WAS GRACEY ANN GATES.
SHE WAS A FRESHMAN
IN COLLEGE.
SHE WAS SUPPOSED TO TAKE
HER LAST FINAL THIS MORNING
AND THEN FLY HOME TO BE
WITH HER FAMILY FOR CHRISTMAS.
AND YOU THINK THE PERSON
THAT STOLE MY CAR RAN HER DOWN?
WELL,
THE HIT-AND-RUN HAPPENED
HALF A MILE FROM THE RESTAURANT
WHERE YOU WERE,
SO IT DOES FIT
INTO OUR TIMELINE.
OH, NO WONDER YOU'RE WORKING
SO HARD TO FIND THE CAR.
WHAT CAN I DO?
HOW CAN I HELP?
CAN I OFFER A REWARD?
I WANT TO HELP.
YOU ARE HELPING US RIGHT NOW,
AND WE DEEPLY APPRECIATE IT.
OH, GOD.
I WISH I HAD PAID
MORE ATTENTION
TO THE PEOPLE AROUND ME
LAST NIGHT.
I WISH THAT I HAD KEPT
MY DAMN PURSE IN MY HAND.
I WISH THAT I HADN'T...
HADN'T WHAT?
I WISH I HADN'T PARKED
ON THE STREET.
AND MAYBE MY CAR
WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN STOLEN,
AND THIS POOR GIRL
WOULDN'T BE...
I'M SORRY.
I KNOW HOW UNSETTLING
ALL THIS MUST FEEL, MRS. MYERS,
BUT I PROMISE YOU
THAT WE WILL NOT STOP
UNTIL WE FIND THE PERSON
WHO KILLED THAT YOUNG GIRL
WITH YOUR CAR.
AND IF YOU REMEMBER
ANYTHING AT ALL ABOUT
WHAT MIGHT HAVE HAPPENED
TO YOUR PURSE, PLEASE DON'T
HESITATE TO CALL.
Pope:
WHEN DOES JAY GET IN?
I WANT TO KEEP HIM UP TO SPEED.
UM, HE FLIES IN LATE TONIGHT.
I'LL CALL HIS OFFICE
AND SET UP A BRIEFING
FOR FIRST THING TOMORROW.
WE'LL LET YOU KNOW JUST
AS SOON AS WE FIND YOUR CAR.
UM, PLEASE, PLEASE
GIVE MY CONDOLENCES
TO THAT
POOR GIRL'S FAMILY
AND TELL THEM THEY ARE
IN MY FAMILY'S PRAYERS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
WHAT...A...LIAR.
FOR THE SAKE
OF YOUR CAREER --
AND MINE --
DON'T TELL PEOPLE A POLICE
COMMISSIONER'S WIFE IS A LIAR
UNLESS YOU CAN PROVE IT.
DID YOU SEE HER EYES
WHEN I TOLD HER
ABOUT THE VICTIM?
I SAW TEARS.
I'D BE CRYING, TOO,
IF I SIDE-SWIPED A 19-YEAR-OLD
GIRL AND DROVE AWAY.
ONLY, I'D COME UP
WITH A BETTER EXCUSE
THAN, "OH,
SOMEONE STOLE MY PURSE!"
BEFORE WE GO ANY FURTHER
DOWN THIS GAIL MYERS ROAD,
LET ME POINT OUT TO YOU,
WHEN YOU AIM AT A POLICE
COMMISSIONER'S WIFE AND MISS,
THERE ARE CONSEQUENCES.
WHAT ABOUT THE CONSEQUENCES
OF LETTING SOMEONE
GET AWAY WITH MURDER?
MUR-- THIS IS NOT MURDER.
THIS IS MAYBE
VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER.
YOU'RE THE ONE WHO MADE
HIT-AND-RUN A MAJOR CRIME.
USUALLY, DEATHS LIKE THESE
ARE HANDLED BY TRAFFIC.
YEAH, YEAH. I SHOULD HAVE KNOWN
IF I GAVE YOU A STOLEN CAR,
YOU'D TURN IT
INTO A HOMICIDE.
LOOK, THE OFFICERS
THAT DROVE HER HOME
SAID MRS. MYERS
REEKED OF ALCOHOL.
THAT WASN'T
IN THEIR REPORT.
BECAUSE SHE'S
A POLICE COMMISSIONER'S WIFE.
WOW.
ALRIGHT, HERE, LET'S, UH --
LET'S LOOK AT THE LOGISTICS.
UH, PROVENZA CALLED 911
AT 11:27.
STOLEN-VEHICLE REPORT WAS TAKEN
AT 11:41.
SO, HOW DID SHE STEAL
HER OWN CAR,
COMMIT MANSLAUGHTER,
DITCH ALL THAT STUFF,
AND GET BACK TO THE BAR
IN LIKE 14 MINUTES?
I DON'T KNOW YET.
WHY WAS SHE DRIVING IN THE EXACT
OPPOSITE DIRECTION OF HER HOUSE?
I DON'T KNOW YET.
YOU BETTER FIGURE THAT OUT,
BECAUSE THE HIT-AND-RUN DRIVER
WAS IN THE WESTBOUND LANE,
AND GAIL MYERS' HOUSE
IS EAST OF THERE.
THE DRIVER DIDN'T KNOW
WHAT LANE THEY WERE IN.
THEY SWERVED
ACROSS THE LINE,
PROBABLY BECAUSE
SHE'D BEEN DRINKING.
WELL, IT'S A LITTLE LATE TO
ADMINISTER A BREATHALYZER TEST.
AND, LOOK, IF WE ARE
SERIOUSLY GOING AFTER
A POLICE COMMISSIONER'S
WIFE HERE --
AND BY "WE,"
I DO MEAN YOU --
WHAT DO I TELL THE COMMISSIONER
WHEN HE CALLS FOR A REPORT?
TELL HIM WE'RE DOING
A BLOCK-BY-BLOCK,
INCH-BY-INCH GRID SEARCH
TO FIND HIS WIFE'S PURSE
AND, WE'RE LUCKY, HER CAR.
LOVE IT. WHAT ELSE?
WE'RE KNOCKING ON DOORS,
LOOKING FOR WITNESSES.
LOVE IT. WHAT ELSE?
WE MIGHT AS WELL LOOK
AND SEE IF THERE ARE
ANY ACCIDENT REPORTS
WHERE SOMEONE LOST A MIRROR
OFF THEIR NEW MERCEDES.
OKAY.
AND, UM,
GRACEY'S PARENTS ARE,
FLYING IN FROM COLORADO
TO CLAIM THEIR DAUGHTER'S BODY.
THEY'VE ALSO ASKED TO VISIT
THE SCENE WHERE SHE DIED.
SO, WOULD YOU MIND TALKING
TO THEM ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED?
SURE, SURE.
YOU KNOW I'M REQUIRED
BY THE RULES AROUND HERE
AND THE CIRCUMSTANCES
OF GRACEY'S DEATH
TO ASK YOU IF YOU WANT
TO SEE A COUNSELOR...
ABOUT THE EMOTIONAL
FALLOUT.
NO, NO, NO, NO.
I-I'M FINE, CHIEF.
I'VE ALREADY BEEN ON THE PHONE
WITH MY SPONSOR.
GOOD, THEN. GOOD.
UH, LOOK, COULD YOU QUIETLY --
AND I MEAN ON TIPPY-TOES --
LOOK INTO GAIL MYERS' BACKGROUND
FOR ME, PLEASE?
SHE HAS NO DUIs IN CALIFORNIA.
IT'S A BIG COUNTRY.
SEE IF SHE HAS A SPARE GARAGE
OR A FRIEND WITH ONE SOMEWHERE
NEAR THE RESTAURANT. HELLO?
HI. HEY, CHIEF,
WE'RE MAKING HEADWAY.
UH, MRS. MYERS' WALLET
WAS IN A GUTTER
THREE BLOCKS FROM THE OOH-LA-LA
FRENCH RESTAURANT
WHERE SHE BOOZED IT UP
LAST NIGHT.
AND WE GOT HER CELLPHONE, TOO.
LOOKS LIKE SOMEBODY RAN OVER IT.
GREAT. FIND ME THE CAR,
AND WE'LL BE ON OUR WAY.
THANK YOU.
YES, BUZZ.
I THINK I HAVE THIS STRAIGHT.
MRS. MYERS' DAUGHTER'S
BEST FRIEND'S STEPMOTHER
IS IN INTERVIEW 2
WITH DETECTIVE GABRIEL.
GREAT. THANK YOU.
QUIETLY, LIEUTENANT.
AS THE GRAVE, CHIEF.
AS THE GRAVE.
IT DOESN'T SURPRISE ME
THAT SOMEBODY STOLE THAT CAR.
IT SHOCKS ME
THAT GAIL DIDN'T VALET.
I ALWAYS, ALWAYS
VALET MY MERCEDES.
ONE REALLY MUST.
MM. SO, DO YOU RECOGNIZE
ANYONE FROM THE RESTAURANT
LAST NIGHT?
OH, FIRST OF ALL,
I HATE THAT PLACE.
IT'S JUST FILLED
WITH PRETENTIOUS ASSHOLES.
YOU KNOW, I TEND NOT
TO NOTICE THE STAFF,
BECAUSE HONESTLY,
IF YOU'VE SEEN ONE BUSBOY
IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA,
YOU'VE SEEN 'EM ALL --
IF YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN --
'CAUSE THEY JUST -- WELL,
THEY PRETTY MUCH LOOK ALIKE.
SO, WERE THE GIRLS WITH Y'ALL
THE WHOLE EVENING?
GOD, NO.
NO, THEY USED TO
STAY ALL NIGHT,
BUT, UH, WHEN THEY GOT
THEIR DRIVER'S LICENSES,
OUR LITTLE GIRLS DECIDED
WE WERE OLD AND BORING.
SO KELLY AND KAITLIN LEFT
ABOUT -- I DON'T KNOW --
10:00, 10:30.
AND GAIL AND I STAYED
AND POLISHED OFF THE WINE.
OH, THIS IS SO HELPFUL.
MRS. MYERS SAID SHE HAD
A FEW TOO MANY, HER MEMORY'S
A LITTLE FUZZY.
MM. REALLY? HA!
BECAUSE THAT GAL
CAN PUT IT AWAY.
SHE'S LIKE ONE OF THOSE
HOLLOW
NOT ME.
TWO CHABLIS, AND I'M
THREE SHEETS TO THE WIND.
SO, UM, YOU WERE SAYING
THAT, UH, AFTER
THE GIRLS LEFT...?
OH, I RAN INTO MY FRIEND
VERONICA FROM QUEENS,
I HAD A CUP OF COFFEE WITH "V."
GAIL LEFT, AND THEN,
YOU KNOW, SHE CAME BACK.
SHE SHOULD HAVE VALETED.
MM-HMM.
SO, HOW MUCH TIME WAS THAT,
DO YOU THINK,
BETWEEN WHEN GAIL LEFT
AND THEN CAME BACK TO THE BAR?
OH, I DON'T KNOW.
YOU KNOW,
A CUP OF COFFEE'S WORTH.
SO, GAIL CAME BACK,
THE POLICE WERE CALLED,
AND Y'ALL
HAD ANOTHER DRINK?
YOU KNOW, MAYBE YOU SHOULD ASK
GAIL WHAT SHE WAS DRINKING,
BECAUSE I-I MONITOR MY ALCOHOL
INTAKE AND MY HUSBAND'S,
BUT, UM, YEAH, I DON'T KEEP TABS
ON -- ON OTHER PEOPLE.
THE REASON WE NEED TO BE SO
CRYSTAL CLEAR ABOUT THE DETAILS
IS THAT WHOEVER STOLE
YOUR FRIEND'S CAR
DROVE IT OVER
A 19-YEAR-OLD GIRL,
KILLED HER,
AND FLED THE SCENE.
OH, MY GOD.
ARE YOU KIDDING ME?
THAT'S JUST AWFUL.
ELECTRONICS. BUZZ SPEAKING.
PROVENZA:
Yeah, it's Provenza. Tell the
chief we found the Mercedes.
NO. IT COULDN'T BE
GAIL,
BECAUSE WHEN SHE CAME BACK
TO THE RESTAURANT,
SHE WENT TO THE MANAGER
TO CALL THE POLICE.
SO, I MEAN,
WHY WOULD SHE DO THAT?
WHY WOULD SHE CALL THE POLICE
ON HERSELF?
IT'S HIDDEN IN PLAIN SIGHT,
CHIEF,
PARKED IN AN ALLEY, UH, FIVE,
SIX BLOCKS FROM THE RESTAURANT,
UNLOCKED,
KEY IN THE IGNITION.
I CAN'T BELIEVE
NOBODY CALLED IT IN.
WHO KNOWS YOU FOUND THE CAR?
NOBODY'S HERE BUT US CHICKENS.
GREAT.
HANG ON JUST ONE SECOND.
Well, I can hold on
as long as you like.
AGENT HOWARD. HELLO.
FRITZI...
HONEY, HI.
WE JUST FOUND THE CAR
THAT WAS USED
IN THE HIT-AND-RUN,
AND WE DON'T WANT ANYONE ELSE
AT THE L.A.P.D.
TO KNOW WE HAVE IT.
MAY WE BORROW THE FBI's
PRINT SHED?
E.A.B.?
E.A.B. GREAT.
Thanks.
Love you. Bye.
WELL, I LOVE YOU, TOO,
BUT
$114,000 AUTOMOBILE,
KEYS IN THE IGNITION,
VALUABLES ON THE SEAT,
CASH IN THE ASHTRAY?
WASN'T EVEN LOCKED.
THIS CAR THEFT WAS STAGED,
LIKE HER TEARS.
IT'D BE GREAT
IF YOU COULD PROVE THAT,
YOU KNOW, WITH EVIDENCE.
THE SIDE-VIEW MIRROR'S
A MATCH.
GAIL MYERS' STORY
STILL HOLDS.
SOMEBODY STOLE HER CAR,
HIT THE GIRL, DITCHED THE CAR.
OH...
IT'S POSSIBLE.
LIEUTENANT TAO, ARE YOU FINISHED
WITH THE INTERIOR?
WE CAN WORK, UH,
THE OUTSIDE.
THE INSIDE'S ALL YOURS,
CHIEF.
OKAY.
UH, CHIEF POPE, YOU'RE --
YOU'RE GETTING SO TRIM.
WHY DON'T YOU SLIP IN HERE
BEHIND THE WHEEL?
PROVENZA, GET IN THE CAR.
THE SEAT.
Brenda: NO, NO.
DON'T ADJUST ANYTHING, PLEASE.
FRITZI, WOULD YOU --
OKAY, I GET IT. THE SEAT
IS OBVIOUSLY SET LADY SIZE.
CHIEF JOHNSON,
WHY DON'T YOU TRY?
LOVE TO. OH...
OH, WOULD YOU
LOOK AT THAT --
THE MIRRORS ARE SET PERFECTLY
FOR ME.
CLASSICAL-MUSIC STATION.
PLAYING BEETHOVEN --
AS EVERYONE KNOWS,
THE FAVORITE COMPOSER
FOR 9 OUT OF 10 CAR THIEVES.
CONVINCED?
OKAY.
I'M WILLING TO CLIMB
THIS MOUNTAIN WITH YOU,
BUT YOU'RE GONNA HAVE TO PROVE
GAIL MYERS' CAR WAS NOT STOLEN,
THAT SHE WAS BEHIND THE WHEEL
WHEN GRACEY GATES WAS KILLED,
IF YOU'RE
REALLY CRAZY ENOUGH
TO TRY TO GET HER
ON VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER...
I'M AS NUTTY
AS A FRUITCAKE.
...WE'RE ALSO GONNA
HAVE TO PROVE,
BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT,
SHE WAS UNDER THE INFLUENCE...
WITHOUT A BLOOD ANALYSIS
OR A FIELD SOBRIETY TEST.
HOW DO YOU PLAN
TO DO THAT?
ONE DAY AT A TIME.
YES, LIEUTENANT FLYNN?
HI, CHIEF.
Sorry to be calling so late.
IT'S OKAY. WE'RE UP.
Well, it turns out
THAT THE COMMISSIONER
AND MRS. MYERS
HAVE A VACATION PLACE OUT
IN THE HAMPTONS IN LONG ISLAND.
You know,
a little summer getaway,
8,000 SQUARE FEET, OCEANFRONT,
WORTH ABOUT $12 MILLION.
AND THIS IS RELEVANT
BECAUSE...?
BECAUSE IT SEEMS,
LAST SUMMER,
GAIL MYERS GOT A TICKET
AT 2:15 IN THE MORNING
OUTSIDE A BAR IN SOUTHAMPTON.
A D.U.I.?
HER RECORD
HAS BEEN EXPUNGED.
You know, right about now,
IT WOULD BE REALLY NICE TO HAVE
SOMEONE WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS
TO NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT.
YES?
YOU KNOW ANYONE
IN SUFFOLK COUNTY
SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT?
I KNOW PEOPLE IN
THE LONG ISLAND FBI OFFICE.
THEY MAY KNOW SOMEBODY
WHO KNOWS SOMEBODY. WHY?
GAIL MYERS GOT A TICKET
AT 2:00 A.M. OUTSIDE
A BAR IN SOUTHAMPTON.
THEY BURIED IT.
I WANT IT DUG UP.
YOU KNOW, YOU'RE GONNA
HAVE A HARD TIME
PROVING GAIL MYERS
WAS IN THAT VEHICLE,
LET ALONE YOUR VICTIM'S DEATH
BEING A RESULT OF HER ACTIONS.
SHE WAS DRUNK.
SHE KILLED THAT GIRL
AND FLED THE SCENE.
THAT'S VEHICULAR
MANSLAUGHTER, HON.
MAYBE NOT.
WHY MAYBE NOT?
BECAUSE A PREVIOUS D.U.I.
MAKES THIS MURDER.
THAT COULD HAVE BEEN ME
BEHIND THE WHEEL OF THAT CAR...
...JUST A LITTLE BEFORE
I MET YOU.
YEAH, BUT YOU DID SOMETHING
ABOUT YOUR PROBLEM.
GAIL MYERS NEEDS
AN INTERVENTION.
I'M GONNA GIVE HER ONE.
ALRIGHT.
SINCE SHE'S THE WIFE
OF A POLICE COMMISSIONER,
MIGHT I MAKE A SUGGESTION
AS TO HOW YOU GO ABOUT
QUESTIONING THEM?
WE'RE PUTTING A LOT OF
RESOURCES INTO FINDING
YOUR WIFE'S CAR,
AND WE EXPECT TO GET IT BACK.
WE APPRECIATE THAT, WILL,
BUT THE FACT IS, WE'RE FULLY
INSURED.
WE REALIZE THAT YOU'RE REQUIRED
TO LOOK INTO THESE ISSUES,
BUT GRILLING OUR FRIENDS
ABOUT MY WIFE'S DRINKING HABITS?
IT'S REALLY EMBARRASSING.
I-I UNDERSTAND THAT, GAIL.
LOOK, HERE'S THE DEAL.
AS YOU KNOW, WE BELIEVE
A YOUNG WOMAN WAS RUN DOWN
AND KILLED WITH YOUR CAR.
AND YOU SAY
YOU DON'T REMEMBER EXACTLY
WHEN AND HOW YOUR PURSE
WENT MISSING.
AND DETERMINING THAT IS
A BIG PART OF MAKING OUR CASE.
WELL, WE MAY HAVE MADE THIS CASE
FOR YOU ALREADY.
REALLY?
AND HOW DID YOU DO THAT?
OUR DAUGHTER, KELLY,
AND HER FRIENDS
POSTED PICTURES FROM OUR DINNER
ON THEIR FACEBOOK PAGES.
KISS THE CONSTITUTION
GOODBYE.
THERE'S NO SUCH THING
AS PRIVACY ANYMORE.
BUT GOOD FOR US BECAUSE...
SEVERAL OF THE PICTURES
SHOW A YOUNG LATINO MAN
WITH TATTOOS ON HIS HANDS
STANDING BEHIND MY CHAIR.
RIGHT THERE.
UH-HUH.
THERE HE IS AGAIN.
MM-HMM. THAT IS MY PURSE STRAP
ON THE BACK OF MY CHAIR.
LET ME JUST, UH --
JUST WRITE SOME OF THIS DOWN.
SO, THE -- THE BUSBOY
WAS AT YOUR TABLE,
AND, UH, GO ON.
WELL, YOU KNOW,
I WENT BACK TO THE RESTAURANT
TO CHECK ON HIM,
AND I HATE TO ACCUSE ANYONE
WITHOUT PROOF,
PARTICULARLY A MINORITY,
BUT THIS GUY DID NOT SHOW UP
FOR WORK YESTERDAY... OR TODAY.
PROBABLY FLED THE COUNTRY BY NOW
IN WHAT'S LEFT OF OUR CAR.
ON HIS EMPLOYMENT
APPLICATION,
THEY HAD HIS NAME
AS JOSE REYES --
R-E-Y-E-S.
THANK YOU.
UH, JAY, WOULD YOU FORWARD
THOSE PICTURES
TO MY E
DONE.
I'D FORWARD THEM
TO, UH, CHIEF JOHNSON,
BUT SHE DOESN'T SEEM
VERY INTERESTED
IN FOLLOWING UP ANYONE
OTHER THAN GAIL.
WELL, I DON'T HAVE TO TELL YOU
WHAT SHE'S LIKE.
I GUESS YOU MUST CONSIDER HER
A VALUABLE ASSET.
STILL, ALL THE LAWSUITS
MAKES YOU WONDER
IF SHE'S REALLY WORTH IT.
NOT REALLY.
GAIL, EXCUSE ME.
UH, BEFORE YOU GO,
IF WE COULD JUST TAKE
ONE MORE CRACK AT,
NAILING DOWN
EXACTLY WHERE AND WHEN
YOUR PURSE WENT MISSING.
YOU HAD IT
IN THE RESTAURANT --
IT'S IN THE PICTURE --
AND YOUR PHONE
AND YOUR KEYS WERE IN IT.
BUT THEN YOU WENT OUT
TO YOUR CAR LOOKING FOR IT.
OBVIOUSLY, SHE PANICKED --
I'M SORRY, JAY,
YOU WEREN'T THERE.
THESE QUESTIONS ARE FOR GAIL.
PLEASE DON'T INTERRUPT ME AGAIN.
YOU SPLIT THE BILL
WITH YOUR FRIENDS.
YOUR CREDIT CARD
WAS IN YOUR WALLET.
THE WALLET IN YOUR PURSE.
SO WHY DID YOU GO OUT
TO YOUR CAR LOOKING FOR IT?
WHAT DOES IT MATTER?
WELL, IT'S JUST THAT
WHEN WE FIND THIS BUSBOY,
YOUR VERSION OF THIS THEFT,
AS RELATED --
IT'S GONNA MAKE IT VERY
DIFFICULT TO GET A CONVICTION.
IF YOU REALLY WANT
TO BE HELPFUL,
YOU COULD SAY
THAT YOU DON'T REMEMBER
WHERE YOU LEFT YOUR PURSE
BECAUSE YOU WERE
MAYBE A LITTLE DRUNK.
WELL, WHY DON'T YOU FIND
JOSE REYES
AND ASK HIM
WHAT HE WAS HIGH ON.
WELL, THAT IS OUR NEW
NUMBER-ONE PRIORITY, GAIL --
FINDING THE BUSBOY.
OH, AND MAKING SURE THAT
THE RESPONSIBLE PARTY HERE
DOESN'T GET AWAY
BECAUSE A POLICE
COMMISSIONER
WAS TRYING TO THROW
HIS WEIGHT AROUND.
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
Brenda: A BUSBOY?
SHE'S PINNING THIS
ON A BUSBOY WITH THE HELP
OF HER DAUGHTER?
MM-HMM.
MAYBE I SHOULD TALK TO KELLY,
SEE WHAT SHE REMEMBERS.
YOU BETTER DO SOMETHING,
'CAUSE I, UH, LOST MY TEMPER
WITH MYERS.
YOU'LL FEEL BETTER
ONCE YOU SEE THIS.
OKAY, BUZZ.
STEP OUT OF THE CAR,
PLEASE.
Gail: WHAT
I NEED YOU TO STEP
OUTSIDE THE VEHICLE.
OKAY, YEAH, YOU WERE WAITING
IN THAT PARKING LOT.
THIS IS ENTRAPMENT.
DO YOU KNOW WHO MY HUSBAND IS?
STEP OVER HERE.
RIGHT NOW.
DO YOU KNOW WHO MY HUSBAND IS?!
STEP RIGHT OVER HERE.
OKAY, I'VE HEARD ENOUGH.
WOW. HOW DID SHE GET THAT
EXPUNGED FROM HER RECORD?
DON'T YOU KNOW
WHO HER HUSBAND IS?
SHE PAID A FINE,
TOOK ALCOHOL-AVERSION CLASSES,
MADE A HUGE DONATION
TO COMMUNITY CENTER,
HIRED A VERY GOOD LAWYER.
AND SHE STILL
WENT ON DRINKING.
EXCUSE ME, CHIEF JOHNSON.
THE VICTIM'S PARENTS
ARE ON THEIR WAY UP.
MR. AND MRS. GATES,
I'M DEPUTY CHIEF
BRENDA LEIGH JOHNSON.
WE'RE SO DEEPLY SORRY
FOR YOUR LOSS.
THANK YOU.
WE BROUGHT THE PICTURES
OF GRACEY YOU ASKED FOR.
I HOPE YOU FIND ONES THAT
WILL HELP YOU AT THE TRIAL.
THANK YOU.
Mr. Gates: UH, BEFORE WE GO
THROUGH THEM...
WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE TO SEE
WHERE OUR LITTLE GIRL DIED?
OF COURSE, YES.
LIEUTENANT?
RIGHT OVER HERE BY THE CURB.
YOU CAN SEE THE SKID MARKS
FROM THE ACCIDENT OVER THERE.
HER HELMET FLEW OFF,
AND, UH, JUST SO YOU KNOW,
GRACEY WAS NEVER
IN ANY PAIN AT ALL.
SHE DIDN'T SUFFER.
THANK YOU.
AND SHE TALKED ABOUT THE TWO
OF YOU AT THE END.
W
SHE SAID THAT SHE WAS
REALLY LOOKING FORWARD
TO GETTING HOME
FOR THE HOLIDAYS
AND THAT SHE HOPED THE ACCIDENT
WOULDN'T INTERFERE WITH THAT...
AND THAT SHE, UH --
SHE GUESSED THAT YOU WERE RIGHT,
BECAUSE SHE GOT HURT
RIDING THAT MOTORCYCLE...
AND SHE HOPED THAT
YOU WOULDN'T BE MAD AT HER.
I'M ANGRY, ALRIGHT,
BUT
NOT WITH GRACEY.
I WANT TO MEET THE PERSON
WHO KNOCKED HER DOWN
AND RAN AWAY.
THAT'S WHAT I WANT.
PLEASE, L-LET ME
TAKE YOU OVER HERE
TO THE, UH, REST
OF THE CRIME SCENE.
OKAY?
OKAY.
YOU ALRIGHT?
YOU READY?
YEAH, YEAH.
EXCUSE ME, CHIEF?
COULD YOU STEP WITH ME THIS WAY
A LITTLE WAYS?
OUR GUYS IN I.T. WERE ABLE
TO PATCH MRS. MYERS'
CELLPHONE BACK TOGETHER.
SHE GOT A VERY INTERESTING TEXT
FROM HER DAUGHTER
RIGHT BEFORE THE ACCIDENT.
OH, FOR HEAVEN'S SAKES,
WHERE ARE MY GLASSES?
I GOT IT.
"MOM, WATCH OUT --
D.U.I. CHECKPOINT
AT BEVERLY AND LA BREA."
OH, FOR HEAVEN'S SAKES.
THAT'S WHY SHE DROVE WEST,
EVEN THOUGH SHE LIVES EAST --
TO AVOID
THE SOBRIETY CHECKPOINT.
HER DAUGHTER HELPED HER.
AND THEIR DAUGHTER DIED.
AT LEAST WE KNOW SHE WAS DRUNK.
NO, NO. WE ONLY KNOW
THAT HER DAUGHTER SENT A TEXT.
THAT DOESN'T PROVE
SHE WAS IMPAIRED OR
SHE WAS EVEN DRIVING.
W-WAIT A MINUTE.
JUST WAIT A MINUTE.
I WONDER IF MRS. MYERS
RAN A RED LIGHT
SOMEWHERE ON HER WAY BACK
TO THE RESTAURANT.
CITY COUNCIL SUSPENDED
TRAFFIC-LIGHT CAMERAS
MONTHS AGO.
YEAH, IN L.A.,
BUT IN WEST HOLLYWOOD,
THEY STILL HAVE THEM,
WHICH IS THE DIRECTION
MRS. MYERS WAS DRIVING.
AND THEY STILL USE
PHOTO ENFORCEMENT.
MRS. MYERS WAS DRUNK.
SHE JUST SMASHED INTO SOMEONE.
SHE FLED THE SCENE
OF THE ACCIDENT.
IT'D BE WONDERFUL
SHE RUN A RED LIGHT.
SOMETHING YOU'D NEVER KNOW
WITHOUT ASKING.
YEAH, THIS IS
DETECTIVE DAVID GABRIEL,
L.A.P.D., MAJOR CRIMES.
CAN YOU PATCH ME THROUGH
TO THE HEAD OF
YOUR TRAFFIC DIVISION, PLEASE?
WE HAVE HER IN THE CAR 30
SECONDS AFTER THE HIT-AND-RUN.
FANTASTIC.
STILL MANSLAUGHTER.
BETWEEN THE BAR TAB,
THE PHONE TEXT,
THE PRINTS, THE BLOODWORK?
THAT'S ALL GREAT,
BUT WE STILL CANNOT PROVE
SHE WAS LEGALLY
OVER THE LIMIT
WITHOUT A CONCURRENT BLOOD
OR URINE TEST -- PERIOD.
PLUS, SHE'S PROBABLY
HAD COCKTAILS
WITH EVERY JUDGE IN TOWN.
LOOK, WE HAVE HER
FOR THE HIT-AND-RUN.
WE HAVE HER
FOR FILING A FALSE REPORT
OF HER CAR BEING STOLEN.
WE'LL GET HER
OFF THE STREETS.
SHE WILL DO REAL TIME.
WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME
YOU SAW A POWERFUL PERSON
GO TO JAIL?
SHE'LL GO TO REHAB IN MALIBU.
SHE'LL GO TO COMMUNITY SERVICE.
SHE'LL GO TO THERAPY.
SHE'LL GO ON PROBATION.
AND THEN SHE'S GONNA GO
TO A BAR,
AND WE'RE GONNA HAVE TO DO THIS
ALL OVER AGAIN.
MANSLAUGHTER IS A SLAM DUNK.
WE RISK IT BY GOING FOR MURDER.
CHIEF, I WAS JUST ON THE STREET
WITH THE VICTIM'S PARENTS,
SHOWING THEM THE BLOODSTAIN
WHERE THEIR DAUGHTER DIED.
IF WE GET IN FRONT OF A JURY --
ANDY, BELIEVE ME --
I'M SURE THE PARENTS
ARE VERY EFFECTIVE,
BUT I ALSO GUARANTEE YOU
THEY WILL NEVER BE ALLOWED
TO TESTIFY.
HE'S RIGHT, LIEUTENANT.
IF WE'RE GONNA MAKE USE
OF THE PARENTS,
WE NEED TO DO IT NOW.
I CAN'T BELIEVE YOU FOUND
JOSE REYES SO QUICKLY.
DID HE ADMIT ANYTHING?
WHAT IS HE SAYING?
WHAT THEY ALL SAY --
"I'M INNOCENT.
YOU'VE GOT THE WRONG GUY."
BUT WE'RE JUST ON THE VERGE
OF PUTTING TOGETHER
ALL THE DETAILS.
NOW, I'M GONNA HAVE
TO SEPARATE Y'ALL,
IF YOU DON'T MIND,
SO THAT YOU CAN INDEPENDENTLY
VERIFY EVERYTHING.
SEPARATE?
YES.
KELLY, GO WITH CHIEF JOHNSON,
IF YOU WILL.
MRS. MYERS,
WILL YOU COME WITH ME?
ALRIGHT. GO ON.
THANK YOU.
Provenza:
THIS WAY, KELLY.
I HOPE YOU DON'T MIND,
UH, SHARING SPACE.
IT'S A LITTLE CROWDED UP HERE.
HERE WE GO.
AH, THIS IS
MR. AND MRS. GATES.
THEY'RE
THE VICTIM'S PARENTS.
WE ASKED THEM TO SORT THROUGH
SOME PHOTOS OF THEIR DAUGHTER.
I-IT'S ALWAYS GOOD
FOR THE JURY TO --
TO HAVE A HUMAN FACE
TO GO ALONG WITH THE STORY
THAT WE TELL THEM AT TRIAL.
OH, I-I'M SORRY, MR. AND
MRS. GATES, THIS IS KELLY.
KELLY IS A POTENTIAL WITNESS
IN YOUR DAUGHTER'S CASE.
OH.
WHAT A -- WHAT A GREAT PHOTO.
IS THIS, UH,
HIGH
WELL, NOW,
THAT'S ONE WITH THE CAP ON,
BUT I LIKE THE ONE
WITHOUT BETTER.
IT'S
WHERE IS IT?
Mr. Gates:
I THINK I SAW IT.
OH, YEAH.
HERE.
SHE DID HER HAIR UP
FOR IT.
WELL, KELLY, WHY DON'T YOU,
WHY DON'T YOU HAVE A SEAT
RIGHT HERE?
AND IF YOU FOLKS WILL EXCUSE ME,
I'M GONNA STEP OUT FOR A BIT.
IF YOU WOULD JUST -- JUST KEEP
SORTING THROUGH THE PHOTOS.
YEAH, WE WILL.
WE WILL.
WE ASKED THE VICTIMS' FAMILIES
TO PICK OUT A PHOTO OR TWO,
AND THEY ALWAYS BRING IN
EVERY PICTURE THEY HAVE.
AT LEAST WE'RE PUTTING THEM
TO GOOD USE.
CALL ME WHEN KELLY'S HAD ENOUGH,
WOULD YOU?
YES, MA'AM.
CANDY BAR?
NO, THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW, WHEN I FIRST QUIT
DRINKING, I PRACTICALLY
LIVED ON THESE THINGS.
YOUR BODY GETS USED TO THE SUGAR
FROM THE BOOZE.
OH.
WHEN DID YOU
QUIT DRINKING?
I'VE BEEN IN A.A.
FOR 15 YEARS NOW.
GOT DOWN TO A CHOICE BETWEEN
THE BADGE AND THE BOTTLE.
THE BADGE DIDN'T
MAKE ME FEEL LIKE CRAP
IN THE MORNING.
WELL, GOOD FOR YOU
AND YOUR HIGHER POWER.
IF YOUR BODY
CAN'T TOLERATE ALCOHOL,
YOU SHOULD GIVE IT UP.
GLAD YOU FIGURED IT OUT.
I DIDN'T FIGURE
ANYTHING OUT.
I JUST QUIT DRINKING.
I'LL BE BACK IN A MINUTE,
MA'AM.
IS IT KELLY?
YEAH, KELLY.
HOW OLD ARE YOU?
UM, 17.
OH. THAT'S --
THAT'S ALMOST
OUR DAUGHTER'S AGE.
WELL...
THERE'S SOME SHOTS OF HER,
IF YOU WANT TO --
THAT'S, UH...
SHE'S SO BEAUTIFUL.
W
UH, WE WENT DOWN
TO CORPUS CHRISTI.
OH, THAT'S RIGHT. YEAH.
SHE WAS 4 THEN.
SHE REALLY LIKED THE BEACH
AND STUFF, 'CAUSE WE DIDN'T GO
VERY OFTEN,
BUT THAT TRIP, SHE...
THAT'S THE TRIP SHE...
KELLY, THIS IS, UH,
DETECTIVE SANCHEZ.
HE'S GOING TO HELP US
LOOK AT THOSE PICTURES
I TOLD YOU ABOUT.
WHY DON'T YOU
HAVE A SEAT?
WHY DON'T WE START WITH THE,
UH, PHOTOS FROM THE ACCIDENT?
OH, MY GOD.
SORRY TO PUT YOU THROUGH THIS
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT
THAT YOU UNDERSTAND
WHAT HAPPENED TO GRACEY.
ANYTHING THAT YOU NEED ME TO,
I CAN EXPLAIN.
BUT, YOU SEE,
THE VICTIM'S HELMET CAME OFF
WHEN YOUR MOM RAN INTO HER.
WHEN MY MOM RAN INTO HER?
IS THAT WHAT YOU JUST SAID?
THIS...
IS YOUR MOM
RUNNING A RED LIGHT.
YOU NOTICE THE TIME CODE?
THAT WAS LESS THAN 30 SECONDS
AFTER THE HIT-AND-RUN
AND EIGHT BLOCKS
FROM WHERE GRACEY LOST HER --
MY MOM SAID HER CAR
WAS STOLEN.
SHE LIED TO YOU, KELLY,
'CAUSE THAT'S WHAT
DRUNKS DO.
YOU KNEW SHE WAS DRUNK,
DIDN'T YOU?
THIS IS YOUR MOM'S
CELLPHONE.
AND THIS IS A TEXT
THAT YOU SENT TO YOUR MOM
A FEW MINUTES
BEFORE THE HIT-AND-RUN.
AND THIS IS THE ROUTE
THAT YOUR MOM TOOK HOME
AFTER YOU WARNED HER
ABOUT THE SOBRIETY CHECKPOINTS.
SHE DROVE WEST
EVEN THOUGH YOU LIVE EAST,
AND THIS IS WHERE
THE ACCIDENT HAPPENED.
NOW, LOOK, KELLY,
IT'S ONLY NATURAL TO WANT
TO PROTECT YOUR MOTHER.
I WASN'T TRYING TO PROTECT
MY MOTHER.
I WAS TRYING
TO PROTECT MY DAD.
HE SAID IF SHE GOT
ONE MORE D.U.I.,
THEN IT WOULD
REALLY HURT HIS CAREER.
BUT HE IS NEVER HOME.
HE'S ALWAYS WORKING.
AND I'M THE ONE
WHO HAS TO WATCH HER.
ONE TIME,
I-I FOUND HER IN THE GARAGE
JUST PASSED OUT
IN HER OWN VOMIT.
YOUR MOM'S LUCKY.
SHE COULD HAVE DIED
IN THE ACCIDENT, TOO.
MAYBE NEXT TIME, SHE WILL...
UNLESS YOU HELP US.
I CAN'T HELP YOU.
HOW CAN I HELP YOU?
BY TELLING US HOW MUCH SHE DRANK
ON THE NIGHT OF THE ACCIDENT.
WE CAN STOP HER
FROM EVER DOING THIS AGAIN.
I PROMISE YOU, KELLY,
WE CAN HELP SAVE
YOUR MOM'S LIFE,
BUT WE NEED YOUR HELP
TO DO IT.
UM...
MOM HAD, UH...
THREE GLASSES
OF VODKA AT HOME,
LIKE SHE USUALLY DOES
BEFORE WE GO, UM...
ANYWHERE, ACTUALLY.
UM, AND, UH,
THEN AT THE RESTAURANT,
SHE HAD A LOT TO DRINK
THERE, TOO.
UM, SHE WASN'T SLURRING
OR ANYTHING,
LIKE SHE USUALLY DOES,
BUT SHE WAS REALLY BOMBED.
OH, MY GOD.
IT'S ALL MY FAULT.
IT'S MY FAULT
THIS POOR GIRL GOT KILLED.
IT'S MY FAULT.
NO, NO, KELLY,
IT'S NOT YOUR FAULT,
BUT I UNDERSTAND WHY YOU FEEL
THAT WAY.
I'M -- I'M MARRIED
TO A RECOVERING ALCOHOLIC,
AND HE'D BE THE FIRST TO SAY
THAT ADDICTS ARE GREAT
AT MAKING THE REST OF US
FEEL RESPONSIBLE
FOR THEIR MISTAKES.
YOUR HUSBAND WAS --
AN ALCOHOLIC, YES.
AND NOW HE IS
THE MOST THOROUGHLY DECENT
AND WONDERFUL MAN
I'VE EVER KNOWN.
BUT HE TELLS ME ALL THE TIME
THAT HE'S JUST ONE DRINK AWAY
FROM LOSING IT ALL,
AND HE NEEDS HELP
STAYING SOBER.
MOM'S TOO PROUD
TO ASK FOR HELP.
I PROMISE YOU --
I'M GONNA GET YOUR MOM
TO STOP DRINKING
IF IT'S THE LAST THING I DO.
Kelly: MOM HAD, UH...
THREE GLASSES OF VODKA AT HOME,
LIKE SHE USUALLY DOES
BEFORE WE GO, UM...
ANYWHERE, ACTUALLY.
UM, AND, UH,
THEN AT THE RESTAURANT,
SHE HAD A LOT
TO DRINK THERE, TOO.
A LOT TO DRINK.
UM, SHE WASN'T SLURRING
OR ANYTHING,
LIKE SHE USUALLY DOES,
BUT SHE WAS REALLY BOMBED.
OH, MY GOD.
IT'S MY FAULT
THIS POOR GIRL GOT KILLED.
IT'S MY FAULT.
NO --
JAY, I WANT A LAWYER.
THEN YOU'D BETTER
CALL ONE.
CHIEF POPE, CHIEF JOHNSON,
I APPRECIATE HOW DIFFICULT THIS
INVESTIGATION HAS BEEN FOR YOU.
I'M NOT GONNA FORCE OUR DAUGHTER
TO TAKE THE STAND
AND WATCH THIS HORROR SHOW
YOU'VE CREATED
PLAY OUT ON THE 6:00 NEWS.
MM, SO THAT'S WHAT THIS IS
ALL ABOUT, ISN'T IT?
YOUR CAREER.
YOU DON'T CARE
WHAT HAPPENS TO ME.
YOU DIDN'T CARE ABOUT THAT GIRL
YOU RAN OVER AND LEFT TO DIE
IN THE STREET.
JAY. JAY! JAY...
YOU GET ME AN ATTORNEY,
OR I SWEAR TO GOD,
I'LL GET MY OWN,
AND I WILL SUE YOU.
I HAVE GIVEN MY WHOLE LIFE
FOR THIS MARRIAGE.
I WILL NOT LET YOU
SCREW ME ON THIS.
OH, YOU THINK
I'M BLUFFING?
WHERE ARE YOU GOING?
I'M GOING TO RESIGN
AND THEN GET
OUR DAUGHTER HOME.
OH, MY GOD.
THAT POOR GIRL.
GOD, GAIL! GOD!
JAY. JAY!
YOU CAN'T LEAVE ME
LIKE THIS.
MRS. MYERS, PLEASE.
HE'S COMING BACK. JAY. JAY!
I AM NOT AN ALCOHOLIC.
OKAY.
BUT YOU ARE DEFINITELY
A MURDERER.
GAIL MYERS, YOU HAVE THE RIGHT
TO REMAIN SILENT.
NO, NO. IT WAS AN ACCIDENT.
IF YOU GIVE THAT UP...
I DIDN'T MEAN
TO HURT ANYBODY.
...ANYTHING YOU SAY CAN...
I'LL GET TREATMENT.
I'LL GO TO REHAB.
...IN A COURT OF LAW --
I'LL STOP!
LOOK, OKAY, OKAY!
LOOK! HOLD ON!
I-I-IF THIS -- IF THIS IS
HOW IT HAS TO BE...
...I...
I WILL GET HELP...
...IF YOU THINK
THAT I SHOULD.
I WILL GET HELP.
AND WHO WILL HELP
GRACEY ANN GATES?
LIEUTENANT.
Provenza:
DON'T YOU WORRY, MRS. MYERS.
WE'RE GOING TO GET YOU
SOME HELP.
JAY MAY BE STEPPING DOWN,
BUT...LET'S NOT KID OURSELVES.
ARRESTING
A POLICE COMMISSIONER'S WIFE
IS NOT GONNA MAKE US HEROES
AROUND HERE.
HOW MUCH WORSE
CAN IT GET?
I MEAN, REALLY.
I GUESS WE'LL SEE.